Before you can understand what cloud solutions are, you need to know what we're competing to see in
this lecture.
I'll cover the traditional I.T. deployment models of on premise solutions and cool location or commercial
services.
First up on premises, solutions to this is your standard traditional set up where you own your own
building as a company and all of the equipment is hosted in your building and you've paid for all the
equipment and you own it all through with a traditional on premises solution.
All equipment is located in your building.
All equipment is owned by you and by you, I mean the company that are clear lines of demarcation.
Everything in your building is your responsibility.
The connections between your offices are your service providers responsibility.
All of your equipment is CapEx with CapEx and OpEx, capex, capital expenditure and not anything that
you pay a one off upfront fee for all pictures, operational expenditure.
And this is anything that you're paying a recutting monthly fee for.
So when you're running on the traditional on premises solution, you buy your equipment upfront.
So that is a CapEx cost.
New equipment will typically take over a week to deploy.
You have to go through the approval process, then you have to order the equipment.
You have to wait for it to arrive on your site from whoever you bought it from.
You then need to get it to the server room.
You need to unbox it.
You need to get it rock up.
You then need to get it cabled.
You need to install the operating system and any patches and you need to install the applications on
there as well.
The networking team need to configure the networking configuration.
The server team need to do the installation and install software on there.
And if you're using external storage, the storage team will need to configure that.
So it's an involved process and typically it's going to take at least a week to deploy a new server
or other equipment like your your switches, firewalls, etc..
Another thing is you need to consider redundancy for any mission critical equipment.
You're not going to want to have any single points of failure.
So you're going to double up on those, which is again, going to add to the complexity and also they
cost.
So that's on premises, didn't need to talk about that so much because it's very intuitive, pretty
obvious what's happening there.
The next one that you might not be so aware of is Kulu or colocation facilities.
This is a data center location where the owner of the facility rents out space to external customers.
The facility owner provides power, cooling and physical security for their customers, server storage
and networking equipment.
As a customer, obviously your staff, your users are not going to be sitting in a data center to do
their work.
They'll still be sitting in your normal office.
The normal office has got network connectivity to the data center and that is where your centralized
servers are located.
Independent commercial providers such as Equinix is probably the best new and one they offer customers
multiple network connectivity options through a choice of network service providers.
So if you were in the U.S., for example, maybe AT&T and Verizon and a few other ones are connected
in there.
And when you put your equipment in the cool new facility, you can take your choice of network providers.
The network service providers will also typically peer with each other and cool facilities about how
Internet connectivity is built.
So the characteristics of a cool solution, the cool new provider owns the data center facility and
is responsible for providing highly available power, cooling and physical security according to the
terms of a service level agreement with you, the customer you own, your own server storage and networking
equipment, which is located inside the cool little facility.
So they're providing the building infrastructure.
The actual I.T. equipment is provided and owned by you.
The connections between your offices and Mikula are your network service providers responsibility.
So with this, it shares a lot of the characteristics of an on premises solution, your equipment within
the cool facility is owned by you.
And again, it's paid for as an upfront CapEx cost.
The monthly Coolmore hosting fees are a monthly recurring fee.
So that's an OpEx cost.
New equipment will typically take over a week to deploy because again, it's your own equipment and
you're configuring it all yourself.
You have to order it, do all the configuration, just like with on premises.
It's going to take over a week.
Equipment requires technology refreshes.
This was the same with on premises as well, meaning the hardware is going to get out of date and then
you're going to want to replace it with new technology, which again, is going to be another CapEx
cost.
You need to consider redundancy for the hardware that you own, the same as in an on premise solution.
You're not going to want to have any single points of failure.
OK, so that was on premises and Coolmore.
And a cool new facility is not a cloud solution.
You'll see why and you'll see what a cloud solution is as we go through the rest of the section.